Spotify Plotly Dash Documentation
Table of Contents

    Repository Description
    Requirements
    Data Dictionary

Repository Description

This repository contains Python code for creating interactive dashboards to visualize Spotify charts data. It includes the following files:

    funcs.py: Contains functions for data processing and dashboard creation.
    main.py: The main script to run the Plotly Dash application.

Data Source

The primary dataset used in this project is the 'charts.csv' file, which can be downloaded from Kaggle. 
    https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dhruvildave/spotify-charts/download?datasetVersionNumber=85
This dataset is  3.48 GB.

Requirements

To run the Spotify Plotly Dash application, you can install these libraries using pip::

    pandas
    plotly
    dash
    dash_bootstrap_components
    dash_bootstrap_templates


    pip install pandas plotly dash dash_bootstrap_components dash_bootstrap_templates


Data Dictionary

The Spotify charts data is processed and transformed into several datasets. Here's a description of each dataset:
charts200.csv

This dataset contains information about songs on the Spotify charts. It has the following columns:

    title: String - Song name.
    rank: Int64 - Artist's position on that date's chart (200-1).
    date: String - Date in YYYY-MM-DD format.
    artist: String - Artist names. Multiple artists can appear as comma-delimited strings.
    url: String - URL link to play the track on Spotify.
    region: String - Region in which the chart is generated. A 'Global' value is the sum of all regions.
    chart: String - Chart type, either 'Top200' or 'Viral50'.
    trend: String - Text description of the movement of the song/title relative to the prior date.
    streams: Int64 - Total streams of the song on the date.

world_streams.csv

This dataset summarizes the streams of songs by region and artist. It has the following columns:

    region: Object - Region name.
    artist: Object - Artist name.
    streams: Int64 - Total streams of songs in that region by the artist.

my_streams.csv

This dataset summarizes your selected streams by region and artist. It has the following columns:

    region: Object - Region name.
    artist: Object - Artist name.
    streams: Int64 - Total streams of songs in that region by the artist.

my_arts.csv

This dataset contains information about your curated list of artists by region. It has the following columns:

    region: Object - Region name.
    artist: Int64 - Number of artists from your list in that region.

These datasets are generated by calling funcs.write_dfs_to_csv with your personal curated list of artists as a parameter.
